Category	Purpose	                        Main Question it Answers

Creational	How to create objects	        "How should I create this object?"
Structural	How to organize objects/classes	"How should these objects work together?"
Behavioral	How should objects communicate	"How should objects interact?"

Creational → How are objects created?
Structural → How are objects connected and organized?
Behavioral → How do objects communicate and interact?

1. Creational Design Patterns

Focus: Object Creation

These patterns hide or simplify object creation.

Without them, you might write:

const car = new Car();
const bike = new Bike();
const truck = new Truck();

As your project grows, object creation becomes complicated.

Creational patterns answer:

"What's the best way to create this object?"

Examples:

Singleton
Factory Method
Abstract Factory
Builder
Prototype
Restaurant Example

Instead of customers cooking food,

Chef creates the food.

Customer doesn't know how it is made.

Customer
    |
    v
 Chef -----> Pizza
      -----> Burger
      -----> Pasta

The chef is like a Factory.

When to use Creational?
object creation is complex
object creation should be centralized
hide new
reuse existing objects
only one object should exist (Singleton)
2. Structural Design Patterns

Focus: Object Structure

Objects already exist.

Now the question becomes:

"How do I connect them together?"

Think of LEGO.

You already have blocks.

Structural patterns tell you how to combine them.

Examples

Adapter
Decorator
Composite
Facade
Proxy
Bridge
Flyweight

Restaurant Example

Kitchen

Waiter

Customer

Chef

These all already exist.

Now we organize communication.

Customer
    |
 Waiter
    |
 Kitchen

Waiter is a Facade.

Customer doesn't directly talk to every chef.

Another example

Phone charger

Indian socket

US charger

Need Adapter.

US Charger ---> Adapter ---> Indian Socket

Objects exist.

Need compatibility.

When to use Structural?

combine objects
simplify interfaces
wrap objects
reuse existing classes
make incompatible classes work together
3. Behavioral Design Patterns

Focus: Communication

Objects already exist.

Structure already exists.

Now the question is:

"How should they behave?"

Examples

Observer
Strategy
State
Mediator
Command
Chain of Responsibility
Iterator
Template Method
Visitor
Memento
Interpreter

Creational Patterns
Creational patterns :- focus on object creation mechanisms, trying to create objects in a manner suitable to the situation.

Singleton: Ensures a class has only one instance and provides a global point of access to it.

Factory Method: Defines an interface for creating an object, but lets subclasses decide which class to instantiate.

Abstract Factory: Creates families of related or dependent objects without specifying their concrete classes.

Builder: Separates object construction from its representation to allow the same construction process to create different representations.

Prototype: Creates new objects by copying an existing object (clone) rather than creating from scratch.




Structural patterns :
explain how to assemble objects and classes into larger structures while keeping these structures flexible and efficient.

Adapter: Allows incompatible interfaces to work together by converting the interface of a class into another interface clients expect.

Bridge: Decouples an abstraction from its implementation so that the two can vary independently.

Composite: Composes objects into tree structures to represent part-whole hierarchies, letting clients treat individual objects and compositions uniformly.

Decorator: Dynamically adds new behaviors or responsibilities to an object without altering its structure.

Facade: Provides a simplified, high-level interface to a larger, more complex body of code or subsystem.

Flyweight: Minimizes memory usage by sharing as much data as possible with other similar objects.

Proxy: Provides a placeholder or substitute for another object to control access, log requests, or delay initialization.




Behavioral Patterns: 
Behavioral patterns identify common communication patterns between objects and realize these patterns.

Chain of Responsibility: Passes a request along a chain of handlers, letting each handler decide to process the request or pass it to the next.

Command: Encapsulates a request as an object, thereby letting you parameterize clients with different requests, queue requests, and support undo operations.

Interpreter: Evaluates language grammar or expressions by defining a grammatical representation and an interpreter for it.

Iterator: Accesses the elements of an aggregate object sequentially without exposing its underlying representation.

Mediator: Restricts direct communications between objects and forces them to collaborate only through a central mediator object.

Memento: Captures and externalizes an object's internal state so the object can be restored to this state later without violating encapsulation.

Observer: Defines a subscription mechanism to notify multiple objects automatically about any events that happen to the object they’re observing.

State: Allows an object to alter its behavior when its internal state changes, making the object appear to change its class.

Strategy: Defines a family of algorithms, encapsulates each one, and makes them interchangeable at runtime.

Template Method: Defines the skeleton of an algorithm in a superclass, deferring some specific steps to subclasses without changing the overall structure.

Visitor: Separates an algorithm from the object structure on which it operates, allowing you to add new operations without modifying the structures.
