Prototype Pattern
Definition
Prototype Pattern creates new objects by cloning an existing object instead of creating them from scratch.
Or simply:
Copy an existing object rather than building a new one.

Why do we need it?
Suppose you're building a board game.
A board contains:

Size
Pieces
Players
Scores
Game State

Creating a new board from scratch every time may be expensive.
const board = new Board(...lots of data...);
Now imagine saving checkpoints.

Questions:- Consider a board game where you need to save the current state of the game at various checkpoints. Instead of 
manually creating new board objects and copying all the pieces or their states (which could be costly if the board is large 
and has many game pieces), we can use the Prototype Pattern to clone the board.
We will use the prototype pattern allows us to make a copy of the current board, including all its pieces and their states, 
without the need for deeply recreating each part of the board.


Solution - Prototype Pattern

The Prototype Pattern can be extremely useful in a board game when you want to save the current state of the game (including the
 board layout and the position of pieces) for undo/redo functionality, checkpoints, or simply making a copy of the board for a new player.
Each piece or game element can provide its own clone method, allowing the entire board to be easily cloned with all its current state.
By using the Prototype pattern, we decouple the complexity of cloning the board from the client, ensuring that each object knows how to 
clone itself, making the system flexible and easier to maintain.


Checkpoint 1
Checkpoint 2
Checkpoint 3
Checkpoint 4

If we recreate the entire board every time:
Expensive
Slow
Duplicate initialization logic

Advantages
Faster than creating complex objects repeatedly.
Avoids expensive initialization.
Reduces duplicate code.
Easy creation of object snapshots.
Useful for checkpoint systems and templates.

Disadvantages
Deep cloning can become tricky.
Circular references require special handling.
Improper cloning can cause shared-state bugs.
Complex objects may require custom clone logic.

Shallow Copy: Creates a new object but does not clone the objects that the original obiect refers to.
Deep Copy: Clones the original object and all the objects it refers to (nested objects)

Example:
:
Shallow Copy: Cloning an object with references to other objects (only the outer object is copied).
Deep Copy: Cloning the entire object graph, including any objects the original refers to.